the world is watching as Palestinians go
hungry due to Israel's war on Gaza it's
now clear the icj is watching as
well on Thursday the court unexpectedly
announced new orders on Israel to try to
prevent famine there are three new
provisional measures but the most
significant one calls on Israel to
without delay ensure unhindered
provision of humanitarian Aid everything
from food and water to clothing and
shelter throughout Gaza including
increasing the capacity and number of
land Crossing points and maintaining
them open for as long as necessary this
additional provisional measure also
calls on Israel with immediate effect to
Halt any military action that prevents
the delivery of that Aid the Secretary
General has no say over the decisions
made by the primary judicial Oregon of
the UN but is following the case closely
we do believe as a matter of principle
that all member states need to abide
abide by and Implement uh decisions of
the
Court the court said famine is Now
setting in in Gaza thus justifying the
additional provisional measures many of
the judges considered that Israel was
not really complying with the order um
and also given the specificity of the
order itself when it comes to Aid and
humanitarian Aid um I think it is clear
that this is going to be a key aspect of
the discussion for South Africa going
forward this is potentially what might
make or break the case in terms of like
how do you decide whether genocide is
happening is going to be this whole
debacle of denying eight to to Gaza the
icj has also requested Israel issue a
report on all of the measures it has
taken to abide by the new provisional
measures that report is due by the end
of April Gabriel zando Al jazer at the
United Nations in New
York make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer